Have you ever been sneered at well perhaps in the ministry you faced someone with an expression like we see here on our monitor or maybe it was something a little bit different
whatever the case a sneer can be very intimidating and perhaps when you think about this Bible account you're wondering well when David is resurrected in the new world I'd like to ask him how he felt at that moment
but how did David get into that situation facing a nine and a half foot tall giant who remember he was set essentially on a humanitarian mission his father Jesse said take some food to your brothers at the battlefield
David was simply being obedient and did so
but soon after he arrived he heard Goliath's taunts and David said something that would bring a wave of challenges at least three in all what did he say well let's turn to first Samuel chapter 17 verse 26
it's as David began to say to the men who were standing near him what will be done for the man who strikes down that Philistine over there and takes away reproach from Israel
for who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should taunt the battle line of the living God that was it strong words what happens next challenge number one it's called false accusation from his own brother let's look at verse 28
when his oldest brother Eliab heard him speak to the men he became angry with David and said why have you come down and with whom did you leave those few sheep in the wilderness I well know your presumptuousness and the bad intentions of your heart you came down just to see the battle
well not pleasant right your own brother accusing you of having a bad motive but how did David respond to this notice verse 29 simple to this David said what have I done now it was only I was only asking a question and in verse 30 David moves on
the watchtower said this ended the matter so David did not dwell on Eliab's false accusation he didn't stand there and get into an argument with his brother about his motives he said a word or two and let it go
let's go to that second challenge that David faced that day and that's called skepticism let's look at verse 33
but Saul said to David you are not able to go fight against this Philistine for you are about a boy and he has been a soldier from his youth
well the watchtower said that David was likely in his late teens at this point so essentially compared to Goliath he was a boy so how did David handle this second challenge skepticism
well we might say that he just politely logically reasoned with Saul let's look at verse 37 where it kind of sums matters up
then David added Jehovah who rescued me from the claws of the lion and the bear he is the one who will rescue me from the hand of this Philistine
at this Saul said to David go and made Jehovah be with you did you notice what convinced skeptical Saul
it was simple logic David reasoned if Jehovah can help me do that kill a 300 pound bear he will help me do this simple logic combined with faith
well that brings us to the third challenge that David faced that day and this we will call intimidation Goliath contemptuously sneered and tried to intimidate David notice what he said in verse 44
just come to me and I will give your flesh to the birds of the heavens and to the beasts of the field
well with great faith and under the influence of Jehovah spirit how did David respond to this let's look at verses 46 and 47
this very day Jehovah will surrender you into my hand and I will strike you down and cut off your head
and on this day I will give the corpses of the camp of the Philistines to the birds of the heavens and to the wild beasts of the earth and people of all the earth will know that there is a God in Israel
and all those gathered here will know that it is not with the sword or the spear that Jehovah saves for the battle belongs to Jehovah and he will give all of you into our hand powerful words
the difference perspective strong faith David did not see himself as small in relation to Goliath but in reality David saw the bigger picture how small Goliath and the entire Philistine army was in relation to Jehovah
and that entire army was defeated that day the inside book says that stone from David sling was no doubt guided and given unusual force by Jehovah
so three challenges all successfully dealt with that day false accusations skepticism intimidation what's the lesson for us today
well let's start with a false accusation we may be falsely accused perhaps that's happened to you at some point perhaps a family member or maybe a fellow witness may misjudge our motives and accuse us
so what will help well as David did we don't have to get into an argument about the matter we don't have to dwell on it we can say a few words in response and move on why
well why would we want to waste precious time and mental energy defending ourselves from someone who's already made up their minds move on
the second challenge skepticism as we learned a skeptic here could be on our side as saw was an israelite in this case he was someone an authority that could happen to us as well someone who an authority on our side could be skeptical of us
or more frequently perhaps the skeptic is right here on our own minds self doubt what can we do to deal with skepticism well in faith as David did we can use simple logic we can remind ourselves if Jehovah helped me with that he will help me with this simple logic
think of all the lion-like challenges that you have already faced in your life the next challenge may seem daunting but the reality is Jehovah's already brought us this far
the third challenge David faced intimidation if someone tries to intimidate or sneer at us as did Goliath we can remember to see things from Jehovah's standpoint Jehovah always has the bigger picture
we could reason with ourselves how big is this person in relation to Jehovah with faith we can see the bigger picture soon Jehovah's people will be faced with a much bigger enemy than Goliath
what will help us at that time like David see the bigger picture how small our enemies are going to look to Jehovah who will use his son and the heavenly armies to fight for us
and Jehovah who rescued David will rescue us and that's just simple logic
someday when David is resurrected he just might want to hear your Goliath story